# Developer Guide to fundaml

## Initial Setup

This document provides guidelines for setting up and contributing to the project.

1. Clone or fork the repository: Use git clone <repository-url> to clone the repository to your local machine.

2. Install Python: The project requires Python 3.11 or above. Please check your Python version using python --version. If you don't have the required version, install it from the official Python website.

3. Create a virtual environment: It's a good practice to create a virtual environment for the project to isolate the dependencies. Use the following commands:

    3.1 Install [Conda](https://docs.anaconda.com/free/anaconda/install/index.html) 

    3.2 setup the virutal environment 
    
    `conda env create --file environment.yml`

    3.3 Activate the environment

    `conda activate fundaml`

4. Install [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/)


## Project Structure

- `src/fundaml`: This is where all the source code resides. It includes scripts for data exploration (`eda.py`), models (`models.py`), metrics/scores (`scores.py`), and training models (`trainers.py`).

- `tests`: This directory contains all the test cases for the source code.

- `data/`: This directory contains the datasets used for model training and testing.

- `docs`: This directory contains all the documentation for the project.

- `_tb_log_dir`: This directory contains logs generated by TensorBoard.

- The project also includes standard files like `README.md`, `LICENSE`, `CONTRIBUTING.md`, `CHANGELOG.md`, `CONDUCT.md` for documentation and project guidelines.

## Running Tests

You can run the tests using pytest by simply running `pytest` in the project root directory, however since this project is a python model, you must follow these directions, assuming you have successfully activated the corresponding Conda environment:

`poetry install`

`poetry run pytest`

To run specific tests directly, for example `tests/test_trainer_base.py`, follown the setps below:

`poetry install`

`python tests/test_trainer_base.py`

Remember to keep an eye on `_tb_log_dir` for training logs using the TesnsorBoard logger


## To View the TensorBoard logs

To run the TensorBoard and view the logs

`tensorboard --logdir=_tb_log_dir`